Open main1.py. Before running it, what do you expect this program to do? 
It will print the text, "Greetings!" and "What is my favorite color?" before giving the user a chance to input text.
Now right click on the window and select “Run Python File in Terminal”. Click in the bottom panel, and answer the question. Describe what happened. 
It printed both text and gave the user a chance to input text. After inputing text the program stopped
What do you think the program did with what you typed?
Nothing


Open main2.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main1.py. 
It puts the input behind the variable color and then prints the variable.
What do you think the color = input() will do? 
It will store the user's input in the color variable 
Run the program in the terminal and answer the question. Did the program do what you expected?
Yes


Open main3.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. 
In main3.py there is an if-else statement 
What is happening on lines 11–14? 
It's checking whether or not the user inputs "Red" and then prints "Correct!" if it is or "Sorry try again" if it's anything else.
Why are lines 12 and 14 indented? 
They are dependent on the if and else statements.
Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you don’t capitalize Red? 
The program returns "Sorry try again"
What does this tell you about "color"?
It stores a user's specific, case sensitive input


Open main4.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. 
It has if-or and else statements
What problem is this trying to solve? 
"red" returning "Sorry try again"
Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you use some other capitalization scheme (i.e., “RED” or “reD“)?
The program still returns "Sorry try again"


Open main5.py. What do you expect line 11 to do? 
To make whatever the user inputs lowercase and then check if it's the same as "red"
What problem is it trying to solve? 
The user inputting random Uppercase letters and getting back "Sorry try again"
Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you add spaces before or after the word (i.e., “  RED  “ or “ red”)?
The program returns "Sorry try again"


Open main6.py. How is line 11 different than main5.py? 
It added .strip() 
What would you guess .strip() is doing? 
Removing spaces added in the input.
Run the program and answer the question. Is there another way of writing “red” that will break this logic?
Yes, by spacing out each letter of red.


Open main7.py. Before running this program, how do you expect this to be different than main6.py? 
If the user inputs "pink" the program prints out "Close"
What is the purpose of line 11? 
It turns the input in the variable color entirely lowercase and removes spaces on the outside of the input.
Run the program and answer the question.



Open main8.py. What is the purpose of line 11? 
To keep prompting the user with "What is my favorite color until they input red
Why are lines 12–19 indented? 
To return the user to line 12 if color still doesn't equal red
Run the program. What would happen if line 12 were moved before line 11 (and no longer indented)? 
If the user entered something other than red they wouldn't get another prompt to input something and would be put in an infinite loop.
Make that change and run the program again. To end any Python program, you can type ctrl-c.



Open main9.py. What is happening on line 12? 
It causes a loop while the color variable does not equal "red"
What is the purpose of “count”? 
It goes up by 1 with each loop
What is happening on line 22? 
It displays the count within the text 'You guessed it in {0} tries!'
Run the program.


*Extra credit:* open main10.py. Add a comment to each line describing what it is doing (a comment follows a pound sign [#]). 

Commit your changes and push them back to the repository. 

Did you do the extra credit?
no